what is json api
well json api is a specification that
pretty much defines two things
how the client can ask for a resource to
be fetched or modified and how the
server should respond to set requests
well okay but what does it really mean
well let's just jump right into examples
let's see fetching a resource
so let's say we have a list of articles
that we want to get so we just send a
get request for articles and we see that
this is the response we see that the
type is
is articles that's the type of our
resource we we have its id and we also
have the attributes title body and
created a timestamp
now let's take a look at this
relationships field here it specifies
that articles is tied to author and what
is author well author is just of type
people and we get the id of the specific
author that created this article
okay but now let's say i wanted to also
know the name of the author does it mean
that i have to send a separate request
for the author just to get their name
well no that's the power of json api
because if i only add this query param
called inc include
equals author
i'll say that in my response there is a
new field called included
and this field has the author's name
age and gender so i don't have to set
send a separate response request
now
doesn't mean that every single time i
want to get more information about the
name i also have
have to get its age and gender
fields i don't really care about
no because i can also specify which
exact fields can i get from my author
so if i just add this param here fields
people equals name you'll see in my
response that i only got the author's
name
let's also take a look at creating a new
resource
so if i wanted to create a new article
all i have to do here is just send this
body
for post slash articles i have to
specify the type of my new resource or
articles and the attributes title does
jack sparrow need a rehab and the body
the answer is obvious if you watch the
movies and i also have to include the
author so i specify the relationships
author and i provide the type which is
people and the id of the author and in
response i get my newly created resource
which is articles i get its database id
which is two i get the attributes that i
provide and i get a link to it so now i
know where can i find my newly created
resource
well what about updating a new
a resource because i obviously made a
mistake i have to name the article
that's captain jack sparrow need a rehab
again all i have to do is just send a
patch request
with
type
id and what exactly i want to change
and after i successfully send
this request and then i just want to
verify that everything went okay
and i send a get for my article
i'll i'll see that the title is change
does captain jack sparrow need a rehab
now what if i wanted to delete that
article all i have to do here
is just send a delete
for my article and i don't even have to
send any additional body
so this was the basic overview of json
api
leave a like if you like this video and
also check out the description for more
i will leave like link to the official
documentation as well as other videos
that will definitely will that will be
helpful to you so uh yeah thanks